---
layout: post
title: "Week 1"
description: "Week 1"
tags: Weekly(ish)_update
todolist: Title, Overview, Projects and Tasks, Challenges and Solutions, Learnings and Insights, Next Steps, Reflections
---

# Week 1

## Overview
Today, I'm going through my Data Science course, on chapter 16 'Career Advice + Extra Bits'. Learning about tips to stand out to recruiters, especially getting experience without working a job by creating personal projects, learning github's source_control, and tinkering my blog to be more categorized and organized.

## Tasks
* Note taking: _I wrote down the key info from the course_
* Practical trialing: _I tried out and played with github's source_control, learning how to implement it on my pc, and creating branches for my repo_
* Blog tinkering: _I successfully implemented pages in my blog_

## Challenges and Solutions:
Implementing source_control on my pc was pretty straightforward. The course provided the code and the steps to use it, though I did have to consult chatgpt a bit, to know what terminal to use it in. Since he used it on mac, and didn't specify what to use it with in windows. Also learnt the use of branches for repo, and how important it is in a collaborative/open source environment.

I realized that starting this blog, that I wanted to keep weekly documentations (when I can), but also want to document by project-to-project basis as well. So I had to figure out a way to implement tagging or sub-pages to organize things. I definitely had challenges with implementing the damn blog pages. The repo I downloaded this from was from Chad Baldwin. And he has the pages/categorization I needed to make things organized on my blog, so I could copy the files from his repo into mine. Problem was, I have no idea what the fuck is what, and I've never touched html before lmao.

Took a number of trial and errors to find the nessecary files and codes to add the pages/tags onto my blog. Really is thanks to chatgpt to help explain the errors I was continuously getting, while commiting my files. Took half an hour to pinpoint the missing code to get this all to work.
```html
personal: []
```
Mostly because there's a 'personal' section on the page for your blogs, created from one of the files. But it didn't exist in my `_config.yml`. Therefore it had this variable name wanting to be used, yet it doesn't exist in `config`.

## Learnings and Insights:
I learnt how there are other ways to show you have work experience, by simulating it on your personal projects. Documentation and explanation is very important in a workplace where communication is key to really succeeding in your role. Remember not to narrow your scopes of your work too much or hyperfocus on certain tools. Always broaden your views and observe from the sky before committing.

Source_control from github is very simple to implement on pc once you learn the few codes on command prompt. Makes life easy when you could also see the different commits, and know what has been changed or not, which saves communication between peers, evidently with the use of branches, to avoid constant conflicts with the main/master branch, and allow for much better/organized communication, workflow and discussion on the changes made for the code.

I learnt that open source projects can actually be as simple as adding a name into the readme file of the course's repo, (which I did as suggested by the course).

I learnt I'm extremely reliant on chatgpt for solving my problems haha. It's been my tutor since beginning to learn data science and ml. May help if I could read the error and try extrapolate meaning on my own as well, while chatgpt confirms my conclusion after having a gander. It helps to try and understand the code on your own from time to time, unless you need help.

## Next steps:
Continue with the data science and ml course (close to finishing!), and maybe tinker the blog a little bit more for better optimization/visualization. Also looking to attempt some smaller open source contribution to the zero-to-mastery repos. Namely the hacktoberfest `Animation-Nation` and `Travel Guide` for next week, now that most of the course is done!.

## Reflection:
I feel that I'm still very weak in problem solving, and need chatgpt for help. Being stuck in a loop of constant errors make me wanna drift to feckin sleep lol.
