---
layout: post
title: "Week 35&36"
description: "Week 35&36"
tags: Weekly(ish)_update
todolist: Title, Overview, Projects and Tasks, Challenges and Solutions, Learnings and Insights, Next Steps, Reflections
---

# Week 35 & 36

## Relevant work
N/A

## Overview
Timeseries forecasting for workbook 10 - in Progress
Backtesting trading strategy for S&P 500 and Nasdaq - Hiatus

## Project and Tasks
* Continuing onto 10 timeseries milestone project.
* Testing/experimenting with Kotegawa's trading strategy via backtest in S&P500 and Nasdaq

## Challenges and Learnings

### Gathering of data:

`SP500` were gathered through wikipedia's list page, by importing its table within excel. Data is then changed into stock 'tickers' to filter out the companies that can't be fully identified with 100% confidence. The list of data is then put through python, and auto downloaded as a bunch via `yfinance`.

Data of closing value is then preprocessed with stock overlay inddicators, such as `RSI`, `Bolling Band`, `50EMA` and such.

### Time series data is very easy to get lookahead bias

Too many times did I encouter `lookahead bias`, where the python functions unintentionally look into the future, and make trade decisions based on data it was never meant to have. So more often than not, I got trade returns that are way too optimistic and looks too good to be true.

From entering trade the immediate that trade is given, or exiting at open when recieving the close on that day, or using future data to self eliminate bad markers, etc.

### Backtesting parameters is regime dependant

I noticed that through the mingling of parameters, they work better in some specific times, or work better in others. With `Kotegawa's` strategy, this is especially noteable during bear marktets, where it often outperforms the `SP500` during crashes and recessions.

### Nasdaq has survivorship bias

Despite Nasdaq had +7000 companies, I initially thought it'd be a better choice than `SP500` because of more signals and catches on micro caps. Never was I more wrong, as the more companies there were, the more likely survivorship bias becomes a problem.

What happened is the parameters was severely tilted to the gains in the past, as the list only included companies that managed to survive in the past - while the companies in present day included weak companies, ready to go bankrupt. So the tests only let to big losses.

The way to fix it is to try much larger companies like the ones in `SP500`.

### Used too big of capitals for test

During my test, I had a total liquidity volume of `6,000 USD`, and decided to use `300 USD` per experiment trade. Obeviously because of my yet to have knowledge on survivorship bias, the loss were very big ranging from `-10% to -30%` in just one trading day.

### Backtest stock market a lot harder than suspected

I've spent about 2 weeks on this specific `Kotegawa` strategy, identifying oversold stocks in bear markets, but is apparntly a lot more harder than what was suspected, despie spending 8-15 hours per day on the coding aspect of it during my days off. I've chosen to put the project on hiatus and revisit it another time, whilst letting all these lessons and teachings from it digest inside me.

There is a lot of graphing and analyzing, but they all used tainted signals, which makes it pointless to really display their values due to being impossible to create.

## Next steps
Put stock project on hiatus, and return back to Timeseries 10 workbook.

## Reflection
Chatgpt makes this a very efficient project, allowing me to complete a million times faster to get the results, but have to absolutely watch out and skim through code every time for error creation, and constant problems like lookahead bias etc.
